(/authentication/saml/azure) update guide (#1606)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/authentication/saml/azure.mdx

      icon: "plus-circle",
    },
    {
      title: "Enable email address as an identifier for your app.",
      link: "/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#identifiers",
      icon: "key",
    }
  ]}
>
  - Use Microsoft Azure Entra ID to enable SSO via SAML for your Clerk app.
</TutorialHero>

Enabling single sign-on (SSO) with **Microsoft Azure Entra ID** (formerly [Active Directory](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/new-name)) allows your users to sign up and sign in to your Clerk application with their Microsoft account.

> In _production instances_, you must provide custom credentials, which involves generating your own **Client ID** and **Client Secret** using your Microsoft Entra ID dashboard account.

Reviewer: https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/pull/1606#discussion_r1790964602

```suggestion
```

To make the setup process easier, it's recommended to keep two browser tabs open: one for your [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) and one for your [Microsoft Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

<Steps>
  ### Set up an enterprise connection in Clerk

  To create a SAML connection in Clerk:

  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.

>   1. Select **Add connection**, and select **For specific domains**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Select **Add connection** and select **For specific domains**.
```

    }
  ]}
>
  - Use Microsoft Azure Entra ID to enable SSO via SAML for your Clerk application.
</TutorialHero>

Enabling single sign-on (SSO) with **Microsoft Azure Entra ID** (formerly [Active Directory](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/new-name)) allows your users to sign in and sign up to your Clerk application with their Microsoft account.

## Configure for your production instance

In _production instances_, you must provide custom credentials, which involves generating your own **Client ID** and **Client Secret** using your Microsoft Entra ID dashboard account.

> To make the setup process easier, it's recommended to keep two browser tabs open: one for your [**Clerk Dashboard**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) and one for your [**Microsoft Azure portal**](https://portal.azure.com).

Reviewer: This isn't correct. The SAML flows are the same for both development and production..

<Steps>
  ### Set up an enterprise connection in Clerk

  To create a SAML connection in Clerk:

>   1. Navigate to the [**Clerk Dashboard**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections).

Reviewer: We don't ever bold Clerk Dashboard in the docs. If we were to start, we need to update that across the entire docs.

```suggestion
  1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections).
```

  1. In the top navigation, select **Configure**. Then in the sidebar, select **SSO Connections**.
  1. Select **Add connection**, and select **For specific domains**.
  1. In the modal that appears, select **Microsoft Entra ID (Formerly AD)** as the identity provider.
  1. Add the **Name** of the connection. This is the name that will be displayed on the sign-in form.
  1. Enter the **Specific Domain** that you want to allow this connection for. This is the domain of the users you want to allow to sign in to your application.
  1. Select **Add connection**. You will be redirected to the connection's configuration page.
  1. Find the **Service Provider Configuration** section.

>   1. Save the **Identifier (Entity ID)** and **Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL)** values somewhere secure. You'll need these in the [Configure your service provider](#configure-your-service-provider) step. Leave this page open.

Reviewer: Is there a reason you swapped the order of these?

  ### Create a new enterprise application in Microsoft

  To create a new enterprise application in Microsoft:

  1. In a separate page, navigate to the [**Microsoft Azure portal**](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/get-started/azure-portal) and sign in.
  1. Under the **Azure Services** section, find and select **Enterprise applications**. You may have to go to the [**All services**](https://portal.azure.com/#allservices) page and then scroll down to the **Identity** section to find it.

>   1. After being redirected to the **All applications** page, select **New application**.

Reviewer: There's a whole step telling them what page they are going to, so I don't think this first part is necessary. 

However, in this step, we can tell the user where they are being redirected to after their action, instead of having this info in the next step. It feels more intuitive than "Select new application. In the Browse Microsoft Entra Gallery page, select create your own application" because those instructions sound like you, as the user, need to now navigate to the browse microsoft entra gallery page.

```suggestion
  1. Select **New application**. You'll be redirected to the **Browse Microsoft Entra Gallery** page.
```

>   1. In the **Browse Microsoft Entra Gallery** page, select **Create your own application**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Select **Create your own application**.
```

>   1. Enter the **Name** of your application. Ensure the option **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)** is selected. Select **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the modal that appears:
    - Enter the **Name** of your application. 
    - Ensure the option **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)** is selected. 
    - Select **Create**.
```

  ### Assign selected user or group in Microsoft

  Now that you have created the enterprise application, you need to assign users or groups to the application. For example, if you were part of the Clerk organization, you would have access to users and groups within the Clerk organization. In this case, you could assign individual users or entire groups to the enterprise application you just created.

  1. In the **Getting Started** section, select the **Assign users and groups** link.
  1. Select **Add user/group**. You will be redirected to the **Add Assignment** page.
  1. Select the **None Selected** link.
  1. To assign a user to the enterprise application, you can either use the search field to find a user or select the checkbox next to the user in the table.

>   1. Select the **Select** button at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Select the **Select** button at the bottom of the page. You'll be redirected to the **Add Assignment** page.
```

>   1. You will be redirected to the **Add Assignment** page. Select the **Assign** button at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Select the **Assign** button at the bottom of the page.
```

  ### Configure SSO in Microsoft

  After assigning the user or group to the enterprise application, you need to configure the SSO settings to enable SAML SSO.

  1. In the navigation sidebar, open the **Manage** dropdown and select **Single sign-on**.
  1. In the **Select a single sign-on method** section, select **SAML**.

  ### Configure your service provider

  To configure Clerk as your service provider, add these two fields to your IdP's application:

  - **Identifier (Entity ID)** - A unique identifier for your SAML connection, required by your IdP application.
  - **Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL)** - The URL of your application where your IdP will redirect your users after they authenticate.

  To fill out the appropriate values for these fields:

  1. On the **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** page, find the **Basic SAML Configuration** section.
  1. Select **Edit** to open the **Basic SAML Configuration** panel.

>   1. Paste the **Identifier (Entity ID)** and **Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL)** values you saved from the previous step into their respective fields. These values will be saved automatically.

Reviewer: they didn't save them in the previous step.

```suggestion
  1. Paste the **Identifier (Entity ID)** and **Reply URL (Assertion Consumer Service URL)** values you saved earlier into their respective fields. These values will be saved automatically.
```

>   1. Select **Save** at the top of the panel.

Reviewer: I see you added "These values will be saved automatically" to the step before this one. if they're saved automatically, why does the user need to select save

>   1. Once finished, close the panel.

Reviewer: This could get combined with the previous step "Select **Save** and close the panel."

  ### Configure your identity provider

  To configure Microsoft Entra ID as your identity provider, add the following fields to your application:

  1. On the **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** page, find the **SAML Certificates** section.

>   1. Copy the **App Federation Metadata Url**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Copy the **App Federation Metadata URL**.
```

>   1. Navigate back to the **Clerk Dashboard**. In the **Identity Provider Configuration** section, under **App Federation Metadata Url**, paste the **App Federation Metadata URL**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Navigate back to the Clerk Dashboard. In the **Identity Provider Configuration** section, under **App Federation Metadata URL**, paste the **App Federation Metadata URL**.
```

  | `firstName` | `user.givenname` |
  | `lastName` | `user.surname` |

  The only Microsoft claim that is necessary to map is the email address claim. This is the email address that your users will use to log in to your app.

  1. Navigate back to the Microsoft Azure portal.
  1. On the **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** page, find the **Attributes & Claims** section.
  1. Select **Edit**.
  1. To edit the email claim, select the claim with the value of `user.email`. You'll be redirected to the **Manage claim** page.

>   1. Next to **Source attribute**, search and select the dropdown and choose `user.userprincipalname`.

Reviewer: I think this needed to be updated?

  1. Select **Save** at the top of the page.

  ### Enable the connection for Clerk

  To make the connection available for your users to authenticate with:

  1. Navigate back to the Clerk Dashboard where you should still have the connection's configuration page open. If not, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page and select the connection.
  1. At the top of the page, toggle on **Enable connection** and select **Save**.

  ### Test your OAuth

  The simplest way to test your OAuth is to visit your Clerk app's [Account Portal](/docs/customization/account-portal/overview), which is available for all Clerk apps out-of-the-box.

>   1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=account-portal).
>   1. In the top navigation, select **Configure**. In the sidebar, select **Account Portal**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**Account Portal**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=account-portal) page.
```

  The only Microsoft claim that is necessary to map is the email address claim. This is the email address that your users will use to log in to your application.

  1. Navigate back to the **Microsoft Azure portal**.
  1. On the **Set up Single Sign-On with SAML** page, find the **Attributes & Claims** section.
  1. Select the **Edit** button.

>   1. To edit the email claim, select the claim with the value of **`user.email`**. You will be redirected to the **Manage claim** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. To edit the email claim, select the claim with the value of **`user.email`**. You'll be redirected to the **Manage claim** page.
```

>   1. Next to **Source attribute**, search and select the dropdown and choose **`user.userprincipalname`**.

Reviewer: search and select? what did you mean here
also we don't need to add bold around a code snippet

  1. Select **Save** at the top of the page.

  ### Enable the connection for Clerk

  To make the connection available for your users to authenticate with:

>   1. Navigate back to the **Clerk Dashboard** to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.

Reviewer: They aren't navigating to the SSO connections page, they are navigating back to the connection's configuration page. So the instructions before were accurate.

```suggestion
  1. Navigate back to the Clerk Dashboard where you should still have the connection's configuration page open. If not, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page and select the connection.
```

>   1. Under **Connection**, toggle on **Enable connection** and select **Save**.

Reviewer: they never shy away from the "Connection" tab, and its also the default tab, so that part is a given and isn't necessary to mention.

```suggestion
  1. At the top of the page, toggle on **Enable connection** and select **Save**.
```

  ### Test your OAuth

  The simplest way to test your OAuth is to visit your Clerk application's [Account Portal](/docs/customization/account-portal/overview), which is available for all Clerk applications out-of-the-box.

  1. In the navigation sidebar of the Clerk Dashboard, select [**Account Portal**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=account-portal).
  1. Next to the **Sign-in** URL, select **Visit**. The URL should resemble:

     - **For development** – `https://your-domain.accounts.dev/sign-in`
     - **For production** – `https://accounts.your-domain.com/sign-in`

>   If you're already signed into your Azure account, clicking either link automatically redirects you to your application.

Reviewer: i'm not sure what you mean by this ? clicking either link ?
